So we added react native debugger, an amazing tool
and we already can dive deeply into our app with it.
Now I also want to be able to inspect redux here and it's super easy to do,
you can go back to the react native debugger page and there, you'll find explanations on how to add
the redux dev tools, super simple. If you enable debug.js remotely,
you already can include these things here in your redux store connection set up to also hook in the
redux dev tools.
Now it's really easy to do,
let me show you how it works.
Let's go back in our project and then the configure store file where we well do configure our store.
Right now we create a simple store which just gets a reducer but
as you probably know, your store can also get some middleware
and later in the course we will add middleware. To already prepare our whole set up to be able to handle
middleware and the redux dev tools, I'll use the best possible set up we can use for that. For this,
I'll first of all import one other tool or function to be precise from the redux package,
it's called compose and we can use this to basically add multiple middlewares to our store.
Now what I will do is I will add a new constant here and I'll name it compose enhancers,
the idea is that we can either just use the built-in compose function to add middleware to our store
or that we can use the one we get from the dev tools here,
this compose function which is basically an abstraction of this compose function which also includes the dev
tools which of course need to be able to hook into redux,
that's why they're as deeply baked into it.
So here we want to use that and to use it, we can use a simple approach where we first of all turn this
into a let to be able to reassign it and simply set it equal to compose,
so just to the compose function, we don't gain much by that but then I'll add an if check and I check if
dev,
that's a special global variable exposed to you by react native which is only true if you're in development
mode. In this mode,
I also want to connect the redux dev tools,
I don't want to do this in production because I don't want to bloat the bundle unnecessarily and possibly
even slow it down.
If we're in dev mode, I try to set compose enhancers equal to window redux dev tools extension compose
or just to compose, in case we can't fetch this because for some reason we don't have our debugger connected,
then it should fail but fall back to the normal compose function.
So now compose enhancers is either the normal compose function in production mode or in development mode,
it tries to get the one exposed by the react native debugging tools which is simply the compose function
plus the redux dev tools or if that fails, it still uses the normal one.
Now when we create our store, we have to create that store with the usage of compose enhancers,
so there I'll add compose enhancers, like this and to this function, we can then pass apply middleware
and apply whichever middleware we want to add.
This is needed because the redux dev tools are not a middleware but another so-called enhancer,
middleware is a different type of enhancer,
so we need compose enhancers to well add multiple enhancers is one, a little bit like we use combined
reducer to combine multiple reducers to one. Here I don't pass any argument because I don't have any
other middlewares
but once we got more middleware, which we'll have later in the course, then this is really useful.
And that's all, with that redux dev tools are connected,
make sure to save all files.
And now if you reload your application, your dev tools should be connected,
you should see the init action being dispatched.
And if I now add Munich, we indeed see add place and now we can inspect this as we always can in the
redux dev tools, you can search for redux dev tools if you want to learn more about them.
We can have a look at our action, add a state after this action, how this action changed our state,
what this action look like,
we can dispatch a new action by clicking on a place and selecting it,
you see that this changed selected place from null to our place,
we can delete it, now we dispatch delete action here too
and so on,
we can do whatever we like here,
we can work with this with redux now.
So this is great,
now we really have advanced debugging capabilities here because now, we can set breakpoints,
use console log,
dive into our component hierarchy and also have a look at redux.
What else could you wish for?